I'm Bill Elzey with Showplace Lawns. How to
design a new landscape. Well, we go crazy
with that because it's like a blank canvas.
You can do anything and everything. Some key
points to remember as you approach this project;
look at your sunlight conditions. Where is
full sun, where is part sun, part shade, where
is full shade. That's going to determine where
grass can be and what type of plants you will
use. The other thing that you will want to
notice is where a good place is to plant some
taller things, some medium plants, and some
low plants. Keep that in mind, especially
as you work with a bed. You don't want to
block everything out and had stuff in the
middle that nobody can see. The best thing
to do is as you look at your property, come
up, draw you a plan, look at it, study it
because you will change it, you're going to
change it again. But draw something out like
this to get an idea of what you've got. Get
a nice long, or several long garden hoses
to outline areas as you see them on your property
so you get a visual as to what it may look
like. The other thing that you would consider
when you're doing a bed or an area, don't
make it it square and ninety degrees, put
some character in to it, corners, bends, and
things of that nature. Grass is a good thing
because it turns carbon dioxide in to oxygen
so we have something to breathe. So you want
some grass, but you don't need to have a lot
of it, and there fore you can fill it in with
some other things, thus taking away the problem
of keeping the grass growing. I know here
in South Central Texas, maintaining lawns
is a real challenge at times. This basic design
here, we've put a walk way in to a patio,
a walk way and a big turn around spot with
a bird feeder in the middle, we put some trees,
some ground cover, and a bird bath in the
corner over there, some grass, two trees and
a bed, some ground cover across here, grass
again, some more trees. A bed around the corner,
a tree, another tree, another bird feeder,
and some grass. What I like to use for walkways
in a garden situation is decomposed granite
because decomposed granites, granite is pervious,
which means that the water will still go down
through that and disperse to help things around
it. It's not like if this was all concrete
and water never gets there. So that's a good
thing to put in with a border. The border's
can be rock, brick, wood, metal edging, and
I would prefer those before I would think
of anything made of plastic because plastic
will deteriorate over time and need to be
replaced. It's going to be up to you as to
what you want, how much of it you want, what
type of plants work in your area to fit the
sunlight requirements. Again, mark off with
a garden hose to get an idea, draw you up
a plan, and work with that before you start.
The other thing I might suggest is to break
it down in to stages. Do one or two things,
then work on one or two other things, and
so forth, until you get it all filled in.
That also will allow you to see things coming
together and help you to make a decision because
you will also, again, be changing your mind
as you go. These are some ideas that we use
when we do, design a new landscape.